You're in the forest.
You're in the forest.
You're in the forest.
You're in the forest.
You're at the hill in the road.
You're at the end of the road again.
You're inside the Building.
You're in the valley.
You're at slit in the streambed.
You're directly above a grate in a dry streambed.
You're below the grate.
You're in the cobble crawl.
You're in the debris room.
You are in an awkward sloping east/west canyon.
You're in the bird chamber.
You're at the top of the small pit.
You're in the Hall of Mists.
You're in the nugget of gold room.
You're on the east bank of the fissure.
You are on the west side of the fissure in the Hall of Mists.
You're at west end of the Hall of Mists.
You're in the Hall of the Mountain King.
You are in the south side chamber.
You are in the west side chamber of the Hall of the Mountain King.
You are at a N/S passage at a hole in the floor.
You're at  Y2 .
You're at the window near the pit.
The passage here is blocked by a recent cave-in.
You're at the east end of the Long Hall.
You're at west end of the Long Hall.
You are at a crossover of a high N/S passage and a low E/W one.
Dead end
You are in a dirty broken passage.
You're at the top of the small pit.
You are in a little pit which has a stream flowing through it.
You're in the dusty rock room.
You're at a complex junction.
You're in the anteroom.
You are at Witt's end.  Passages lead off in *all* directions.
You're in the shell room.
You're in the arched hall.
You're in a long sloping corridor with ragged sharp walls.
You are in a cul-de-sac about eight feet across. How's your french?
You are in bedquilt, a long east/west passage with holes everywhere.
You're in the swiss cheese room.
You're in the soft room.
You're at the east end of the Twopit room.
You're at the west end of the Twopit room.
You're in the east pit.
You're in the west pit.
You're in the slab room.
You're in the Oriental room.
You are in a large low room.
You're in a sloping corridor.
Dead end crawl.
You're in the misty cavern.
You're in the alcove.
You're in the Plover room.
You're in the dark-room.
You're on the SW side of the chasm.
You're on the NE side of the chasm.
You're in a corridor.
You're at the fork in the path.
You're in the limestone passage.
You're at a junction with warm walls.
You're in the chamber of boulders.
You're at a breath-taking view.
You're in front of the barren room.
You're in the barren room.
You're in a narrow corridor.
You're in the Giant room.
The passage here is blocked by a recent cave-in.
You are at one end of an immense north/south passage.
You're in the cavern with a waterfall
You're at a steep incline above a large room.
You are in a secret N/S canyon above a sizable passage.
You're at the top of the stalactite.
You're at a junction of three secret canyons.
You are in a secret N/S canyon above a large room.
You're in mirror canyon.
You're at a reservoir.
You are in a secret canyon which exits to the north and east.
You're in the secret E/W canyon above a tight canyon.
You are at a wide place in a very tight N/S canyon. 
The canyon here becomes too tight to go on.
You are in a tall E/W canyon.
The canyon runs into a mass of boulders -- dead end.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are at a huge orange stalactite in the maze.
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
You are at a dead end.