#1
You can't move that way.
#2.1
Nothing happens.
#2.2
Nothing seems to happen.
#2.3
I don't think that had any affect on anything.
#2.4
I don't know how to apply that word here.
#2.5
That had little effect, if any at all.
#3
The mist is quite thick here, and the fissure is too wide to jump.
#4
You are at the bottom of the pit with a broken neck.
#5
The bottle is already filled!
#6
The bear eagerly wolfs down your food, after which he seems to calm
down considerably and even becomes rather friendly. burp
#7
The plant surges upwards, reaching halfway to the hole above you
#8
The plant grows explosively, almost filling the bottom of the pit.
#9
You overwatered the plant, you fool!
#10
The grate is locked.
#11
The grate is unlocked.
#12
The bear is quite ferocious, and will no doubt tear you to
shreds if you approach it!
#13
The chain is unlocked and the bear is free.
#14
A crystal bridge now spans the fissure.
#15
The bridge vanishes.
#16
It is beyond your power to do that.
#17
The clam opens momenntarily, and a glistening pearl falls out
and rolls away. Goodness, this must really have been an oyster.
(I never was any good at identifying bivalves, anyway.)
#18
I can't close that!
#19
The oil has freed up the hinges so that the door will now move,
although it requires some effort.
#20
I can't eat.
#21
How can I drink that?
#22
"Glug, glug, glug, Belch!"
#23
It doesn't want to eat anything (except maybe you!)
#24
You fool! Dwarves only eat coal! Now you've made him
*** REALLY  MAD ****!
#25
Trolls are close relatives with the rocks and have skin as tough as
that of a rhinoceros.  The troll fends off your blows effortlessly.
#26
The troll deftly catches the axe, examines it carefully, and tosses it
back, declaring, "Good workmanship, but it's not valuable enough."
#27
The troll catches your treasure and scurries away out of sight.
#28
The bear lumbers toward the troll, who lets out a startled shriek and
scurries away.  The bear soon gives up the pursuit and wanders back.
#29
You attack a little dwarf, but he dodges out of the way.
#30
You killed a little dwarf.  The body vanishes in a cloud of greasy
black smoke.
#31
There is a threatening little dwarf in the room with you!
#32
One sharp nasty knife is thrown at you!
#33
Out from the shadows behind you pounces a bearded pirate!  "Har, har,"
he chortles, "I'll just take all this booty and hide it away with me
chest deep in the maze!"  he snatches your treasure and vanishes into
the gloom.
#34
There are faint rustling noises from the darkness behind you.
#35
The grate is open.
#36
The grate is locked.
#37
The bird was unafraid when you entered, but as you approach it becomes
disturbed and you cannot catch it.
#38
The dome is unclimbable.
#39
A crystal bridge now spans the fissure.
#40
A huge green fierce snake bars the way!  Hisssssss
#41
A hollow voice says "Plugh".
#42
The vase is now resting, delicately, on a velvet pillow.
#43
Crash! Tinkle! The ming vase shatters into worthless crockery.
#44
You fell into a pit and broke every bone in your body!
#45
It is now pitch dark.  If you proceed you will likely fall into a pit.
#46
The nest of golden eggs has vanished!
#47
There is a tiny little plant in the pit, murmuring "water, water, ..."
#48
There is a 12-foot-tall beanstalk stretching up out of the pit,
bellowing "WATER!! WATER!!"
#49
There is a gigantic beanstalk stretching all the way up to the hole.
#50
You can't get by the snake. He hates your guts.
#51
The dragon has a rather "volatile" personality, and he will
probably incinerate you if you get any closer.
#52
You have crawled around in some little holes and wound up back in the
main passage.
#53
Something you're carrying won't fit through the tunnel with you.
#54
Your load is too heavy. You'd best take inventory and drop
something first.
#55
A burly troll stands by the bridge and insists you throw him a
treasure before you may cross.
#56
The troll pops from under the bridge and blocks your way.
#57
The way north is barred by a massive, rusty, iron door.
#58
The bear will bite off your hand. Besides, the chain is locked to the wall.
#59
It's rather difficult to move a twenty-ton dragon, considering
he is lying on the rug.
#60
The vase is now resting, delicately, on a velvet pillow.
#61.1
A valliant attempt!
#61.2
Nice try!
#61.3
A valliant attempt, but you're not that strong!
#61.4
Don't be silly!
#61.5
Do you have any idea on how to do that?
#62
A huge green fierce dragon blocks the way. The dragon is lying
on a persian rug!
#63
A burly troll stands beside the bridge, blocking your way.
#64
There is a ferocious cave bear eyeing you from the far end of the room!
#65
The bear is locked to the wall with a golden chain!
#66
There is a calm, friendly bear locked to the wall.
#67
You are being followed by a very large, tame bear.
#68
With what?  Your bare hands?
#69
Congratulations!  You have just vanquished a dragon with your bare hands
(hard to believe ain't it?).
#70
Attacking it is both dangerous and doesn't work.
#71
There is nothing here to attack.
#72
How can you do that to more than one thing at a time?
#73
Thank you, it was delicious!
#74
I see nothing special about that.
#75
Oh dear, you seem to have gotten yourself killed.  I might be able to
help you out, but I've never really done this before.  Do you want me
to try to reincarnate you?
#76
All right.  But don't blame me if something goes wr......
                    --- POOF!! ---
You are engulfed in a cloud of orange smoke.  Coughing and gasping,
you emerge from the smoke and find....
#77
You clumsy oaf, you've done it again!  I don't know how long I can
keep this up.  Do you want me to try reincarnating you again?
#78
Now you've really done it!  I'm out of orange smoke!  You don't expect
me to do a decent reincarnation without any orange smoke, do you?
Better luck next time!
#79
The nest of golden eggs has vanished!
#80
A little dwarf just walked around a corner, saw you, threw a little
axe at you which missed, cursed and ran away.
#81
The nest of golden eggs has re-appeared!
#200
You are in a forest, with trees all around you.
#205
You have walked up a hill, still in the forest.  The road slopes back
down the other side of the hill.  There is a building in the distance.
#206
You are standing at the end of a road before a small brick building.
Around you is a forest.  A small stream flows out of the building and
down a gully.
#207
You are inside a building, a well house for a large spring.
#208
You are in a valley in the forest beside a stream tumbling along a
rocky bed.
#209
At your feet all the water of the stream splashes into a 2-inch slit
in the rock.  Downstream the streambed is bare rock.
#210
You are in a 20-foot depression floored with bare dirt.  Set into the
dirt is a strong steel grate mounted in concrete.  A dry streambed
leads into the depression.
#211
You are in a small chamber beneath a 3x3 steel grate to the surface.
A low crawl over cobbles leads inward to the west.
#212
You are crawling over cobbles in a low passage.  There is a dim light
at the east end of the passage.
#213
You are in a debris room filled with stuff washed in from the surface.
A low wide passage with cobbles becomes plugged with mud and debris
here, but an awkward canyon leads upward and west.  A note on the wall
says "magic word XYZZY."
#214
You are in an awkward sloping east/west canyon.
#215
You are in a splendid chamber thirty feet high.  The walls are frozen
rivers of orange stone.  An awkward canyon and a good passage exit
from east and west sides of the chamber.
#216
At your feet is a small pit breathing traces of white mist.  An east
passage ends here except for a small crack leading on.

Rough stone steps lead down the pit.
#217
You are at one end of a vast hall stretching forward out of sight to
the west.  There are openings to either side.  Nearby, a wide stone
staircase leads downward.  The hall is filled with wisps of white mist
swaying to and fro almost as if alive.  A cold wind blows up the
staircase.  There is a passage at the top of a dome behind you.

Rough stone steps lead to the top of the dome.
#218
This is a low room with a crude note on the wall.  The note says,
"you can't get it up the steps."
#219
You are on the east bank of a fissure slicing clear across the hall.
The mist is quite thick here, and the fissure is too wide to jump.
#220
You are on the west side of the fissure in the Hall of Mists.
#221
You are at the west end of Hall of Mists.  A low wide crawl continues
west and another goes north.  To the south is a little passage 6 feet
off the floor.
#222
You are in the Hall of the Mountain King, with passages off in all
directions.
#223
You are in the south side chamber.
#224
You are in the west side chamber of the Hall of the Mountain King.
A passage continues west and up here.
#225
You are in a low N/S passage at a hole in the floor.  The hole goes
down to an E/W passage.
#226
You are in a large room, with a passage to the south, a passage to the
west, and a wall of broken rock to the east.  There is a large "Y2" on
a rock in the room's center.
#227
You're at a low window overlooking a huge pit, which extends up out of
sight.  A floor is indistinctly visible over 50 feet below.  Traces of
white mist cover the floor of the pit, becoming thicker to the right.
Marks in the dust around the window would seem to indicate that
someone has been here recently.  Directly across the pit from you and
25 feet away there is a similar window looking into a lighted room.  A
shadowy figure can be seen there peering back at you.

The shadowy figure seems to be trying to attract your attention.
#228
The passage here is blocked by a recent cave-in.
#229
You are at the east end of a very long hall apparently without side
chambers.  To the east a low wide crawl slants up.  To the north a
round two foot hole slants down.
#230
You are at the west end of a very long featureless hall.  The hall
joins up with a narrow north/south passage.
#231
You are at a crossover of a high N/S passage and a low E/W one.
#232
Dead end
#233
You are in a dirty broken passage.  To the east is a crawl.  To the
west is a large passage.  Above you is a hole to another passage.
#234
You are on the brink of a small clean climbable pit.  A crawl leads
west.
#235
You are in the bottom of a small pit with a little stream, which
enters and exits through tiny slits.
#236
You are in a large room full of dusty rocks.  There is a big hole in
the floor.  There are cracks everywhere, and a passage leading east.
#237
You are at a complex junction.  A low hands and knees passage from the
north joins a higher crawl from the east to make a walking passage
going west.  There is also a large room above.  The air is damp here.
#238
You are in an anteroom leading to a large passage to the east.  Small
passages go west and up.  The remnants of recent digging are evident.
a sign in midair here says "Cave under construction beyond this point.
proceed at own risk.  "[Witt Construction Company]"
#239
You are at Witt's end.  Passages lead off in *all* directions.
#240
You're in a large room carved out of sedimentary rock.  The floor and
walls are littered with bits of shells embedded in the stone.  A
shallow passage proceeds downward, and a somewhat steeper one leads
up.  A low hands and knees passage enters from the south.
#241
You are in an arched hall.  A coral passage once continued up and east
from here, but is now blocked by debris. The air smells of sea water.
#242
You are in a long sloping corridor with ragged sharp walls.
#243
You are in a cul-de-sac about eight feet across. How's your french?
#244
You are in bedquilt, a long east/west passage with holes everywhere.
To explore at random, select north, south, up or down.
#245
You are in a room whose walls resemble swiss cheese.  Obvious passages
go west, east, NE, and NW.  Part of the room is occupied by a large
bedrock block.
#246
You are in the soft room.  The walls are covered with heavy curtains,
the floor with a thick pile carpet.  Moss covers the ceiling.
#247
You are at the east end of the Twopit room.  The floor here is
littered with thin rock slabs, which make it easy to descend the pits.
There is a path here bypassing the pits to connect passages from east
and west.  There are holes all over, but the only big one is on the
wall directly over the west pit where you can't get to it.
#248
You are at the west end of the Twopit room.  There is a large hole in
the wall above the pit at this end of the room.
#249
You are at the bottom of the eastern pit in the Twopit room.  There is
a small pool of oil in one corner of the pit.
#250
You are at the bottom of the western pit in the Twopit room.  There is
a large hole in the wall about 25 feet above you.
#251
You are in a large low circular chamber whose floor is an immense slab
fallen from the ceiling (slab room).  East and west there once were
large passages, but they are now filled with boulders.  Low small
passages go north and south, and the south one quickly bends west
around the boulders.
#252
This is the oriental room.  Ancient oriental cave drawings cover the
walls.  A gently sloping passage leads upward to the north, another
passage leads SE, and a hands and knees crawl leads west.
#253
You are in a large low room.  Crawls lead north, SE, and SW.
#254
You are in a long winding corridor sloping out of sight in both
directions.
#255
Dead end crawl.
#256
You are following a wide path around the outer edge of a large cavern.
Far below, through a heavy white mist, strange splashing noises can be
heard.  The mist rises up through a fissure in the ceiling.  The path
exits to the south and west.
#257
You are in an alcove.  A small NW path seems to widen after a short
distance.  An extremely tight tunnel leads east.  It looks like a very
tight squeeze.  An eerie light can be seen at the other end.
#258
You're in a small chamber lit by an eerie green light.  An extremely
narrow tunnel exits to the west.  A dark corridor leads NE.
#259
You're in the dark-room.  A corridor leading south is the only exit.
A massive stone tablet embedded in the wall reads:
"Congratulations on bringing light into the dark-room!"
#260
You are on one side of a large, deep chasm.  A heavy white mist rising
up from below obscures all view of the far side.  A SW path leads away.

A rickety wooden bridge extends across the chasm, vanishing into the
mist.  A sign posted on the bridge reads, "STOP! Pay Troll!"
#261
You are on the far side of the chasm.  A NE path leads away from the
chasm on this side.

A rickety wooden bridge extends across the chasm, vanishing into the
gloom. A sign posted on the bridge reads: "Stop! Pay troll!"
#262
You're in a long east/west corridor.  A faint rumbling noise can be
heard in the distance.
#263
The path forks here.  The left fork leads northeast.  A dull rumbling
seems to get louder in that direction.  The right fork leads southeast
down a gentle slope.  The main corridor enters from the west.
#264
You are walking along a gently sloping north/south passage lined with
oddly shaped limestone formations.
#265
The walls are quite warm here.  From the north can be heard a steady
roar, so loud that the entire cave seems to be trembling.  Another
passage leads south, and a low crawl goes east.
#266
You are in a small chamber filled with large boulders.  The walls are
very warm, causing the air in the room to be almost stifling from the
heat.  The only exit is a crawl heading west, through which is coming
a low rumbling.
#267
You are on the edge of a breath-taking view.  Far below you is an
active volcano, from which great gouts of molten lava come surging
out, cascading back down into the depths.  The glowing rock fills the
farthest reaches of the cavern with a blood-red glare, giving every-
thing an eerie, macabre appearance.  The air is filled with flickering
sparks of ash and a heavy smell of brimstone.  The walls are hot to
the touch, and the thundering of the volcano drowns out all other
sounds.  Embedded in the jagged roof far overhead are myriad twisted
formations composed of pure white alabaster, which scatter the murky
light into sinister apparitions upon the walls.  To one side is a deep
gorge, filled with a bizarre chaos of tortured rock which seems to
have been crafted by the devil himself.  An immense river of fire
crashes out from the depths of the volcano, burns its way through the
gorge, and plummets into a bottomless pit far off to your left.  To
the right, an immense geyser of blistering steam erupts continuously
from a barren island in the center of a sulfurous lake, which bubbles
ominously.  The far right wall is aflame with an incandescence of its
own, which lends an additional infernal splendor to the already
hellish scene.  A dark, foreboding passage exits to the south.
#268
You are standing at the entrance to a large, barren room.  A sign
posted above the entrance reads:  "Caution!  Bear in room!"
#269
You are inside a barren room.  The center of the room is completely
empty except for some dust.  Marks in the dust lead away toward the
far end of the room.  The only exit is the way you came in.
#270
You are in a long, narrow corridor stretching out of sight to the
west.  At the eastern end is a hole through which you can see a
profusion of leaves.
#271
You are in the giant room.  The ceiling here is too high up for your
lamp to show it.  Cavernous passages lead east, north, and south.  On
the west wall is scrawled the inscription, "FEE FIE FOE FOO" [sic].
#272
The passage here is blocked by a recent cavein.
#273
You are at one end of an immense north/south passage.
#274
You are in a magnificent cavern with a rushing stream, which cascades
over a sparkling waterfall into a roaring whirlpool which disappears
through a hole in the floor.  Passages exit to the south and west.
#275
You are at the top of a steep incline above a large room.  You could
climb down here, but you would not be able to climb up.  There is a
passage leading back to the north.
#276
You are in a secret N/S canyon above a sizable passage.
#277
A large stalactite extends from the roof and almost reaches the floor
below.  You could climb down it, and jump from it to the floor, but
having done so you would be unable to reach it to climb back up.

The maze continues at this level.
#278
You are in a secret canyon at a junction of three canyons, bearing
north, south, and SE.  The north one is as tall as the other two
combined.
#279
You are in a secret N/S canyon above a large room.
#280
You are in a north/south canyon about 25 feet across.  The floor is
covered by white mist seeping in from the north.  The walls extend
upward for well over 100 feet.  Suspended from some unseen point far
above you, an enormous two-sided mirror is hanging parallel to and
midway between the canyon walls.  (The mirror is obviously provided
for the use of the dwarves, who as you know, are extremely vain.)  A
small window can be seen in either wall, some fifty feet up.
#281
You are at the edge of a large underground reservoir.  An opaque cloud
of white mist fills the room and rises rapidly upward.  The lake is
fed by a stream, which tumbles out of a hole in the wall about 10 feet
overhead and splashes noisily into the water somewhere within the
mist.  The only passage goes back toward the south.
#282
You are in a secret canyon which exits to the north and east.
#283
You're in the secret E/W canyon above a tight canyon.
#284
You are at a wide place in a very tight N/S canyon.
#285
The canyon here becomes too tight to go on.
#286
You are in a tall E/W canyon.  A low tight crawl goes 3 feet north and
seems to open up.
#287
The canyon runs into a maze of boulders -- dead end.
#288
You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike.
#298
You are near a large pit beside a large stalactite in the maze.
The stalactite is about 30 feet long, allowing you to descend
it. However, due to the smoothness of the stalactite you will
probably be unable to climb back up again.
#299
The threatening little dwarf pulls out a sharp, nasty knife but
suddenly freezes.

The burly troll notices the little dwarf and appears to become very angry.

The little dwarf frantically looks from side to side, the burly troll
takes a sudden step towards the little dwarf.

The little dwarf makes an odd squeal, steps back and trips on an outcropping,
falling with a soft *thud* before scrambling out of sight in a cloud of dust. 
#300
Dead end.
#301
Welcome to adventure.!  Would you like instructions?
#302
Somewhere nearby is Colossal Cave, where others have found fortunes in
treasure and gold, though it is rumored that some who enter are never
seen again.  Magic is said to work in the cave.  I will be your eyes
and hands.  Direct me with commands such as get, take, or look. Since you
need to move around, you must usually enter compass directions
(N,NE,E,SE,S,SW,W,NW or up or down), although you may sometimes use
more vague verbs with with to move. I know of several objects in this
game, such as a lamp and a bottle. I also know of special objects in the
cave. Some of these objects have side effects, ie there is a rod in the
cave that scares a little bird.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
The object of this game is to gather as many treasures as you can and
put them back in the house. You also  run the risk of getting robbed or
killed by some rather unfriendly inhabitants of the cave.
----------------------------------------------------------------
There are some useful commands that you should know about:
--- Brief, Long, and Short - these commands control the amount of
--- detail you get in descriptions.
--- Look (or L) - gives a detailed description of your surroundings.
--- Inventory (or I) tells you what you are carrying.
--- Quit, Stop or End - these are self-explanatory.
--- Save - by typing this, you may save your game and continue it at
--- a later time.
--- Continue - lets you continue an old game.
--- Score - tells you hw well you're doing.

Other helpful functions include:
* multiple commands on one input line, ie:
"Go south, get car, keys, Start car." (example only)
--------------------------------------------------------------
"Adventure" is a version of the game created by Willy Crowther and
Dan Woods at M.I.T.
--------------------------------------------------------------
#303
I'm sorry, but the magazine is written in Dwarvish.
#
#
#